Adding BOFT: Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Butterfly Factorization (#1326)
huggingface/peft: docs/source/conceptual_guides/oft.md

To achieve efficient fine-tuning, OFT represents the weight updates with an orthogonal transformation. The orthogonal transformation is parameterized by an orthogonal matrix multiplied to the pretrained weight matrix. These new matrices can be trained to adapt to the new data while keeping the overall number of changes low. The original weight matrix remains frozen and doesn’t receive any further adjustments. To produce the final results, both the original and the adapted weights are multiplied togethor.

Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) generalizes OFT with Butterfly factorization and further improves its parameter efficiency and finetuning flexibility. In short, OFT can be viewed as a special case of BOFT. Different from LoRA that uses additive low-rank weight updates, BOFT uses multiplicative orthogonal weight updates. The comparison is shown below.

<div class="flex justify-center">
    <img src="https://github.com/wy1iu/butterfly-oft/blob/main/assets/BOFT_comparison.png"/>
</div>

> Serving a different alterative to LoRA, BOFT carries many advantages: 

Reviewer: Changed.

<div class="flex justify-center">
    <img src="https://github.com/wy1iu/butterfly-oft/blob/main/assets/boft_merge.png"/>
</div>

This works because during training, the orthogonal weight matrix (R in the diagram above) and the pretrained weight matrices are separate. But once training is complete, these weights can actually be merged (multiplied) into a new weight matrix that is equivalent.

## Utils for OFT / BOFT

### Common OFT / BOFT parameters in PEFT

As with other methods supported by PEFT, to fine-tune a model using OFT or BOFT, you need to:

1. Instantiate a base model.
2. Create a configuration (`OFTConfig` or `BOFTConfig`) where you define OFT/BOFT-specific parameters.
3. Wrap the base model with `get_peft_model()` to get a trainable `PeftModel`.
4. Train the `PeftModel` as you normally would train the base model.

### BOFT-specific paramters

`BOFTConfig` allows you to control how OFT/BOFT is applied to the base model through the following parameters:

> - `boft_block_size`: the BOFT matrix block size across different layers, expressed in `int`. Smaller block size results in sparser update matrices with fewer trainable paramters. **Note**, please choose it to be dividable to most layer `in_features` dimension, e.g., 4, 8, 16. Also, you can only specify either `boft_block_size` or `boft_block_num`, but not both simultaneously, because `boft_block_size` x `boft_block_num` = layer dimension.

Reviewer: Thanks for the comment. Changed the doc to make it more clear for the user.

> - `boft_block_size`: the BOFT matrix block size across different layers, expressed in ``int``. Smaller block size results in sparser update matrices with fewer trainable paramters. **Note**, please choose it to be dividable to most layer ``in_features`` dimension, e.g., 4, 8, 16. Also, you can only specify either `boft_block_size` or `boft_block_num`, but not both simultaneously, because `boft_block_size` x `boft_block_num` = layer dimension.

Author: Hi @BenjaminBossan 
Thanks a lot for the detailed suggestions! 

1. Regarding the "compile" and "import" issue
We solve this by adding cuda file into pakage data(https://github.com/yfeng95/peft/blob/ca8f32c887841c01fe1a92424bae4a3a93db4276/setup.py#L48) and moving cuda loading inside boft layer (https://github.com/yfeng95/peft/blob/ca8f32c887841c01fe1a92424bae4a3a93db4276/src/peft/tuners/boft/layer.py#L176).  
So it will save the .cu data for pipe install, and automatically compile when and only when there's "import boft".

> - `boft_block_size`: the BOFT matrix block size across different layers, expressed in ``int``. Smaller block size results in sparser update matrices with fewer trainable paramters. **Note**, please choose it to be dividable to most layer ``in_features`` dimension, e.g., 4, 8, 16. Also, you can only specify either `boft_block_size` or `boft_block_num`, but not both simultaneously, because `boft_block_size` x `boft_block_num` = layer dimension.

Reviewer 2: Yes, we have removed the double-backticks in [pull/1326](https://github.com/huggingface/peft/pull/1326/files#diff-c292fd931d83a057e5efcd6a8e1e150c09d0bd6fd0cafa3653bfe9668ff74dceR65)

- `boft_block_num`: the number of BOFT matrix blocks across different layers, expressed in ``int``. Fewer blocks result in sparser update matrices with fewer trainable paramters. **Note**, please choose it to be dividable to most layer ``in_features`` dimension, e.g., 4, 8, 16. Also, you can only specify either `boft_block_size` or `boft_block_num`, but not both simultaneously, because `boft_block_size` x `boft_block_num` = layer dimension.
- `boft_n_butterfly_factor`: the number of butterfly factors. **Note**, for `boft_n_butterfly_factor=1`, BOFT is the same as vanilla OFT, for `boft_n_butterfly_factor=2`, the effective block size of OFT becomes twice as big and the number of blocks become half.

> - `bias`: specify if the ``bias`` paramteres should be traind. Can be ``none``, ``all`` or ``boft_only``.

Reviewer 2: Okay, corrected.

<div class="flex justify-center">
    <img src="https://github.com/wy1iu/butterfly-oft/blob/main/assets/boft_merge.png"/>
</div>

This works because during training, the orthogonal weight matrix (R in the diagram above) and the pretrained weight matrices are separate. But once training is complete, these weights can actually be merged (multiplied) into a new weight matrix that is equivalent.

## Utils for OFT / BOFT

### Common OFT / BOFT parameters in PEFT

As with other methods supported by PEFT, to fine-tune a model using OFT or BOFT, you need to:

1. Instantiate a base model.
2. Create a configuration (`OFTConfig` or `BOFTConfig`) where you define OFT/BOFT-specific parameters.
3. Wrap the base model with `get_peft_model()` to get a trainable `PeftModel`.
4. Train the `PeftModel` as you normally would train the base model.

### BOFT-specific paramters

`BOFTConfig` allows you to control how OFT/BOFT is applied to the base model through the following parameters:

> - `boft_block_size`: the BOFT matrix block size across different layers, expressed in `int`. Smaller block size results in sparser update matrices with fewer trainable paramters. **Note**, please choose `boft_block_size` to be dividable to most layer's input dimension (`in_features`), e.g., 4, 8, 16. Also, please only 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `boft_block_size`: the BOFT matrix block size across different layers, expressed in `int`. Smaller block size results in sparser update matrices with fewer trainable paramters. **Note**, please choose `boft_block_size` to be divisible by most layer's input dimension (`in_features`), e.g., 4, 8, 16. Also, please only 
```

Reviewer: Fixed.

specify either `boft_block_size` or `boft_block_num`, but not both simultaneously or leaving both to 0, because `boft_block_size` x `boft_block_num` must equal the layer's input dimension.

> - `boft_block_num`: the number of BOFT matrix blocks across different layers, expressed in `int`. Fewer blocks result in sparser update matrices with fewer trainable paramters. **Note**, please choose `boft_block_num` to be dividable to most layer's input dimension (`in_features`), e.g., 4, 8, 16. Also, please only 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `boft_block_num`: the number of BOFT matrix blocks across different layers, expressed in `int`. Fewer blocks result in sparser update matrices with fewer trainable paramters. **Note**, please choose `boft_block_num` to be divisible by most layer's input dimension (`in_features`), e.g., 4, 8, 16. Also, please only 
```

Reviewer: Fixed.
